## Minimally connected graph
A connected dgraph is said to be minimally connected if removalof any one edge from it disconnects the graph.

#### theorem 5
A graph is a tree iff it is minimally connected.
`Proof: suppose the graph is minimally connnected so this minimally connected graph cannot have a circuit Otherwise we could removve one of the edges in the circuit and still leave the graph connected.
Thus minimally conn graph is a tree
Conversly,
if G is not minimally connected , there exist an edge e in G such that G-e is connected
Therefore e is in some circuit which implies G is not a tree. Hence the theorem.`

#### Theorem 6
A graph G with n vertices, n-1 edges and no circuits is connnected.

`
Proof :  Supose there exist a circuitless graph G with n vertices and n-1 edges which is disconnected.
Now G will have two or more ciruitless components. Without loss of generality, let G consists of 2 componets G1 and G2
Add an edge e between a vertex vi in G~1~ and v2 and G2. Since there was no path between v1 in G1 and v2 in G2, adding e did not create a circuit. thus Gue is  a ciruitless connected graph(i.e tree on n vertices and n-1 edges which is not possible).
`

### Five Equivalent definition of a tree
A graph G iwith n vertices is a tree ifff
- G is connected and is circuitless
- G is connected and has n-1 edges 
- G is ciruitless and has n-1 edges.
- There is exactly one path between every pari of vertex in G.
- G is minimally connected garph.

`Quest: what is the sum of the degrees of the vertices on a tree?`