Theorem: Every tree has either one or two centers.


`Proof:`
- the result if obvious for the trees K1 and K2 . The vertices of K1 and K2 are cerntal verices.
- Now let T be a tree with n(t)>=3.
- Then T has at least two pendent vertices. Clearly, the pendant vertices of T cannot be central vertices.
- Delete all pendant vertices from T. This results , a subtree T' of T.
- The maximum distance, max d(v,vi), from a given vertex v to any other vertex vi occurs only when vi is a pendant vertex.
- Hence, the eccentricity of each vertex of T'
- Hence, the vertices  of minimum eccentricity of T' are the same as those of T. In other words, T and T' have the same center.
- Now if T'' is the tree obtained from T' by deleting all the pendant vertices of T', 
then T'' and T' have the same center. Hence the center of T'' and T are the same.
- Since T is finite, repetition of  this process of deleting the pendant vertices in the successive subtrees of T will result in either K1 or K2. 
Hence, the center of T is either a single vertex or a pair of adjacent vertices

Corollary 3.2.2
- If a tree has two venters, the two centers must be adjacent.


1. Draw all non isomorphic trees of six vertices .

2. Draw a tree in which its diameter is not equal to twice the radius.Under what conditions  does this inequality hold?Elaborate.

3. Provet that a pendant edge (an edge whose one end vertex is of degree one) in a connected graph G is contained in every spanning tree of G

4. Prove that any subgraph g of a connected graph G is contained in some spanningtreeof G igg g contains no circuit


Tree - connected, acycllic

`Rooted tree := A tree in which one vertex (called the root) is distinguished from all the others is called a rooted tree.
`

`
Binary Rooted tree := A binary tree is defined as a tree in which there is exactly one vertex of degree 2 and each of the remaining vertices is of degree 1 or 2###or3maybe###.Since the vertex of degree two is distinct from all other vertices, this serves as a root.Thus every binary tree is a rooted tree. `
