#### Labelled Graph

A graph in which each vertex is assigned a unique name or label is called a labelld graph.

#### Cayley's Theorem

The number of labeled trees with n vertices (n>=2) is n^(n-1)

#### Forest

A collection of trees is called a forest.
A disconnected graph with k components has a spanning forest consistingof k spanning trees.

Thus: Every connected graph has atleast one spanning tree.

An edge of a spanning tree T is called a branch of T.

An edge of G that is not in a given spanning tree T is called a chord.

A connected graph G may be considered as a unique of two subgraphs T and !T is a spanning tree adn !T its complement. T U !T = G

Since T is a collection of chords, it is

With respect to any of its spanning tree a connected graph fo n vertices and c edges has n-1 branches and e-n+1 chords

A graph of n vertices, e edges and k components, has rank r=n-k and nullity u= e-n+k

The rank of a connected graph is r=n-1 and nullity u = e-n+1

Rank of G = number of branches in any spanning tree (or forest) of G

Nullity of G = number fo chords in G

Rank + Nullity = number fo edges in G

The nullity of a graph  is also referred to as its cyclomatic number or  firest Betti number.

A graph G is called a weighted graphh if ther is a real number associated with edge of G.

The weight of a spanning tree T of weighted  graph G is defined as the sum of the weights of all branches in T.

A spanning tree with the smallest weight in a weighted graph is called a shortest spanning tree or shortest distance spanning tree or minimal spanning tree.

Kruskal's Algo and Prim's Algo give minimal spanning tree of a graph

#### Kreuskal's Algorithm
Steps...

1. Choose an edge e1 of G such that weight of e1 is as small as possible and e1 is not a loop

2. If edges e1,e2,e3...ei have been so chosen , then choose an edge e(i+1) not already chosen such that 
  -the induces subgraph G[e1,e2,... e(i+1)] is acyclic and 
  - w(e(i+1)) is as small as possible , subject to condition(i)

3. If G has n vertices, stop after n-1 dges have been chosen. Otherwise repeat step(2)

#### Prim's Algorithm
Steps...

1. chose any vertex v1 of G. 

2. Choose an edge e1= v1 v2 of G such that v2!=v1 and e1 has smallest weight among the edges of G incident with v1.

3. If edges e1,e2,...,ei have been chosen involving end pints v1,v2,..v(i+1) choose an edge ei+1 = vj vk with vj={v1,v2,...,v(i+1)} and vk={v1,v2,...v(i+1)} such that e(i+1) has smallest weight among the edges of G with precisely one end in {v1,v2,...v(i+1)}

4. If G has n vertices stop after n-1 edges have been chosen . Otherwise repeat step(3).